---
layout: post
title:  "Building an auctionsite with React"
date:   2018-05-08 09:40:20 +0100
categories: projects
tags: projects, react, flas
image_url: "https://res.cloudinary.com/reptilesofnorway/image/upload/c_scale,dpr_1.0,f_auto,q_auto,h_159/reptil_auksjonen_logo"
image_description: "Reptilauksjonen"
---

Recently, I've been working on an auction site specifically for reptiles. As of writing, it is available only to the Norwegian market, but international expansion is in the works. You can have a look at it here: [Reptilauksjonen.no](https://reptilauksjonen.no)

Technically, this project had a few challenges, but in my opinion, some good solutions came out of it. In this post, I will highlight some of the features and solutions, and what I learned working on this.

***

{% include cloudinary.html alt="Reptilauksjonen" public_id="reptil_auksjonen_logo" site="reptilesofnorway"  class="center"%}


## Money and legal

As we started, the goal was to create a marketplace where the owners would receive a fixed percentage of each sale on the site, sort of like the App Store. Initially, we started working with [Braintree](https://www.braintreepayments.com/) for the payment solution, since they have a really nice implementation. Considering this was my first project involving payment, I actually found implementing Braintree surprisingly easy.

In just a few lines, on both the client and the server-side, we were ready to go. It just worked, and it was easily expandable. What more could we dream about?

Well, as it turns out, the Marketplace of Braintree was not yet available in Norway. Oh, what a bummer.

In fact, it seemed that none of the top payment-provider had a Marketplace available to Norway. After contacting some of the local providers, they were also not able to make this happen, either.

So after some talks with the client, we agreed to change the model so that instead of customers paying a fixed percentage per sale, they would instead pay a monthly subscription.

Legally, this was far easier. Braintree however, also don't permit the sale of live animals, so we had to drop that implementation.

Therefore, we went with [Stripe](https://stripe.com/). They are also awesome. Best documentation I've ever seen. We were up and running in no time.


**Lesson learned:**: Read the fine-print.

## React and errors

Errors? Why do we need to talk about that? My code is incredible, I've tested it thoroughly, there are no errors. Yeah, right!

Errors will always happen. We need a way to detect them, not only when we are testing it locally, but detecting real errors from other users. Also, how do we handle errors? Users should be presented with some subtle, honest message about it, instead of just a crashing app or site. How do we make sure that after a crash, the site will not only continue to crash?

For instance, the redux-store could be corrupted by an error, and since we persist the store each time the user refreshes, the error might raise again and again for the user, rendering the site wholly broken for that user. Updating the code might not even work for that user, or they will not even come back to the site if it only shows a blank page with no content.

One thing I like about the recent releases of React is the `ErrorBoundaries`. It enables you to replace a component that for some reason, throws an uncaught exception.

> Oh no! Something went wrong

is a much better error for a user to encounter, than the default, which is just a blank, unresponsive page. I also added automatic error-reporting with [Sentry](https://sentry.io), both in the client and server-side, so I get an excellent little report of every error. This is very important on a newly developed site, as it is much easier to find any bugs that you were unable to test for locally.

Another nice addition to using Sentry is that on an error, you can also add just a simple button that a user can use to add some context into what happened when the user encountered this error. This is automatically attached to the error-report, which nicely also submits the users redux-store, using a middleware.

All of this is best explained, with some very nice examples, in the [React-part of Sentry-documentation](https://docs.sentry.io/clients/javascript/integrations/react/)

Of course, you don't have to have an ErrorBoundary for every component. You add them where it is natural. I would suggest adding them per route so that users still will be able to use the nav-bar for navigation, even after the application has errored out.

I also added a nice little button that clear the users redux-store. Since we only use this for caching and remembering some minor settings, clearing the redux-store for a user is not a big deal.

Example of error-message, sorry for only having this available in norwegian:

{% include image.html alt="Reptilauksjonen error" image="reptile_error.png"  class="center"%}


## Images, and their impact on loading

It is no secret that the vast majority of most websites traffic is images. As developers, we have been told to use responsive images. Using `srcset` and displaying the right sized image instead of a monster-image to a small mobile is a big waste. Of course, generating images for multiple sizes can be time-consuming, even if you have some tremendous automated tools for it.

Enter [Cloudinary](https://cloudinary.com/), which automatically can resize any image on the fly. It has a ton of other features and transformations, but for now, lets only talk about resizing. You can generate any size of any image, by just changing the URL-path. For instance, the top-logo for Reptilauksjonen has an URL like this:

```
https://res.cloudinary.com/reptilesofnorway/image/upload/c_scale,dpr_1.0,f_auto,q_auto,w_150/reptil_auksjonen_logo
```
So, changing the `w_150` to `w_500` will get us an image with a width of 500px. Here, **q**uality and **f**ormat are both set the auto, **c**rop-method is set to _scale_, and the **dpr** is _1.0_.

You don't have to add all these parameters by yourself. For instance, using the [react-cloudinary](https://github.com/cloudinary/cloudinary-react)-plugin, the **dpr** and **width** are automatically added, based on the current users dpr, and the size of the div.

This is only scratching part of the features of Cloudinary, but on this site, we saved a lot of data for the user, and also, since all of the images on Cloudinary are on a CDN, we don't even have to serve the images ourselves.

The free plan of Cloudinary is also quite good, so serving small websites with it, you will likely not need anything more.

## Uploads

Uploading files to your server can be a risk, and it can ruin your data-quote quite fast. You need to keep track of them somehow, and scale the images appropriately, cropping them as needed and a bunch more. At first, I did precisely this. A full implementation, handling it all on our server. I thought I'd save the client some money. However, adding nice features to it, like automatic removal of adult-rated images, and in-browser-cropping was not something I wanted to do. Especially considering that Cloudinary already has all these features, and a ton more.

So guess what, I threw away all that, and just used their API instead. It works a lot better. Using their upload-widget is great, even though it feels a bit outdated.

**Lesson learned**: Don't do everything yourself.


***

Looking back at this project, I learned a ton. It was really exciting to get my hands dirty on a wide project like this. Of course, there is a ton of stuff I haven't touched upon in this post. I might revisit this topic in a future post, but I don't want to throw a wall of text at your face. Therefore, I leave you here, for now.
